Update Kusama Parameters (Time Cheat Sheet) and add Polkadot version (#873)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/kusama-parameters.md

---
id: kusama-parameters
title: Kusama Parameters
sidebar_label: Parameters
---

> Many of these parameter values can be updated via the Governance process. If you require absolute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of these parameter values can be updated via on-chain governance. If you require absolute
```

certainty as to their values, it is recommended you directly check the constants by looking at the
[chain state](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/chainstate/constants) and/or
[storage](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/chainstate).

### Periods of common actions and attributes

> _NOTE: Kusama generally runs 4x as fast as Polkadot, except Polkadot also has 6 second blocktimes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_NOTE: Kusama generally runs 4x as fast as Polkadot, except Polkadot also has 6 second slots.
```

Should we just bite the bullet and commit to calling them 6 second slots instead of block time?

Author: yeah

> See [Polkadot Parameters](kusama-time-periods) for more details on how Kusama's parameters differ

Reviewer 2: Is the link here supposed to be this page? Or the Polkadot parameters one?

Author: fixed in a8e7b8fdc

from Polkadot's._

> - Slot / Block: 6 seconds (although see note below)

Author: ```suggestion
- Slot: 6 seconds (generally one block per slot, although see note below)
```

> - Slot: 6 seconds (generally one block per slot, although see note below)

Author: ```suggestion
- Slot: 6 seconds *(generally one block per slot, although see note below)
```

- Epoch: 1 hour (600 slots x 6 seconds)
- Session: 1 hour (6 sessions per Era)
- Era: 6 hours (3600 slots x 6 seconds)

| Kusama  | Time      | Slots\* |
| ------- | --------- | ------- |

> | Slot    | 6 seconds | 1       |

Reviewer 2: Would it make more sense here to put Slot / Block ? As you mentioned earlier

| Epoch   | 1 hour    | 600     |
| Session | 1 hour    | 600     |
| Era     | 6 hours   | 3,600   |

\*_A maximum of one block per slot can be in a canonical chain. However, occasionally a slot will be
without a block in the chain. Thus, the times given are estimates. See [Consensus](learn-consensus)
for more details._

### Governance

| Democracy        | Time   | Slots   | Description                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Voting period    | 7 days | 100,800 | How long the public can vote on a referendum.                                                                                                                |

> | Launch period    | 7 days | 100,800 | How long the public can select which proposal to hold a referendum on. i.e., Every week, the highest-weighted proposal will be selected to have a referendum |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Launch period    | 7 days | 100,800 | How long the public can select which proposal to hold a referendum on, i.e., every week, the highest-weighted proposal will be selected to have a referendum |
```

> | Launch period    | 7 days | 100,800 | How long the public can select which proposal to hold a referendum on. i.e., Every week, the highest-weighted proposal will be selected to have a referendum |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Launch period    | 7 days | 100,800 | How long the public can select which proposal to hold a referendum on. i.e., Every week, the highest-weighted proposal will be selected to have a referendum. |
```

Author: fixed in a8e7b8fdc

| Enactment period | 8 days | 115,200 | Time it takes for a successful referendum to be implemented on the network.                                                                                  |

| Council       | Time  | Slots  | Description                                                          |
| ------------- | ----- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Term duration | 1 day | 14,400 | The length of a council member's term until the next election round. |
| Voting period | 1 day | 14,400 | The council's voting period for motions.                             |

> The Kusama Council consists of up to 19 members and up to 19 runners-up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kusama Council consists of up to 19 members and up to 19 runners up.
```
according to [this page on council](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/council), it's just spelt "runners up"

| Cool-off period         | 7 days  | 604,800 | The time a veto from the technical committee lasts before the proposal can be submitted again. |
| Emergency voting period | 3 hours | 1,800   | The voting period after the technical committee expedites voting.                              |

### Staking, Validating, and Nominating

| Kusama               | Time    | Slots   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Term duration        | 6 hours | 3,600   | The time for which a validator is in the set after being elected. Note, this duration can be shortened in the case that a validator misbehaves.                                                     |

> | Nomination period    | 6 hours | 3,600   | How often a new validator set is elected according to Phragmen's method.                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Nomination period    | 6 hours | 3,600   | How often a new validator set is elected according to Phragmén's method.                                                                                                                            |
```

Reviewer 2: Phragmen should be Phragmén, I'm not sure the commit suggestion there includes that

| Bonding duration     | 7 days  | 604,800 | How long until your funds will be transferrable after unbonding. Note that the bonding duration is defined in eras, not directly by slots.                                                          |

> | Slash defer duration | 7 days  | 604,800 | Prevents overslashing and validators "escaping" and getting their nominators slashed with no repercussions to themselves. Note that the bonding duration is defined in eras, not directly by slots. |

Reviewer: Would it make sense to add another column for "Era" and just X it on the ones it doesn't apply to?

Author: If it were more than two, I'd say yes, but I think explaining it would be even more confusing.  If we add any additional params that use it, we can add it.

### Treasury

| Treasury               | Time   | Slots  | Description                                                  |
| ---------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Periods between spends | 6 days | 86,400 | When the treasury can spend again after spending previously. |

Burn percentage is currently `0.20%`.

### Precision

> KSM have 12 decimals of precision. In other words, 10 \*\* 12 (1,000,000,000,000 or one trillion)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KSM have 12 decimals of precision. In other words, 1e12 (1,000,000,000,000 or one trillion)
```
